<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<refentry 
		xmlns="http://docbook.org/ns/docbook" 
		xmlns:xlink="http://www.w3.org/1999/xlink" 
		xmlns:xsi="http://www.w3.org/2001/XMLSchema-instance"
		xsi:schemaLocation="http://www.w3.org/1999/xlink http://docbook.org/xml/5.0/xsd/xlink.xsd
			http://docbook.org/ns/docbook http://docbook.org/xml/5.0/xsd/docbook.xsd"
		version="5.0" xml:lang="en">
	<info>
		<copyright>
			<year>2008-2015</year>
			<holder>CESNET, z.s.p.o.</holder>
		</copyright>
		<date>5 December 2011</date>
		<authorgroup>
			<author>
                <personname>
    				<firstname>Petr</firstname>
	    			<surname>Velan</surname>
                </personname>
                <email>petr.velan@cesnet.cz</email>
                <contrib>developer</contrib>
			</author>
		</authorgroup>
		<orgname>The Liberouter Project</orgname>
	</info>

	<refmeta>
		<refentrytitle>fbitdump.xml</refentrytitle>
		<manvolnum>5</manvolnum>
		<refmiscinfo otherclass="manual" class="manual">fbitdump configuration file</refmiscinfo>
	</refmeta>

	<refnamediv>
		<refname>fbitdump.xml</refname>
		<refpurpose>XML configuration for fbitdump utility</refpurpose>
	</refnamediv>
    
	<refsect1>
		<title>Description</title>
		<simpara>
			The <command>fbitdump.xml</command> is an XML configuration for <citerefentry><refentrytitle>fbitdump</refentrytitle><manvolnum>1</manvolnum></citerefentry> utility.
		</simpara>
		<simpara> 
			The layout of the configuration XML document is described by XML Schema Definition in <command>fbitdump.xsd</command>.
		</simpara>
	</refsect1>

	<refsect1>
		<title>Configuration</title>
		<simpara>Configuraion of fbitdump columns is handled in the fbitdump.xml. Root element for column configuration is <emphasis>&lt;columns&gt;</emphasis>. 
			Each column has its own <emphasis>&lt;column&gt;</emphasis> section which completely describes it.
			Element <emphasis>&lt;column&gt;</emphasis> has following children:</simpara>
		<simpara><emphasis>&lt;name&gt;</emphasis>: Name of the column. This is what fbitdump will output in the header line.</simpara>
		<simpara><emphasis>&lt;width&gt;</emphasis>: Width of the column, default is 0.</simpara>
		<simpara><emphasis>&lt;alias&gt;</emphasis>: Alias of the column including leading '%', used in filter and format. Can appear multiple times</simpara>
		<simpara><emphasis>&lt;default-value&gt;</emphasis>: String to show when column value is not available. Default is NULL.</simpara>
		<para>
			<emphasis>&lt;value&gt;</emphasis>: Defines where to get data for this column. Has one of following children:
			<itemizedlist >
				<listitem>
					<simpara><emphasis>&lt;element&gt;</emphasis>: The <emphasis>&lt;value&gt;</emphasis> must have attribute "type" set to "plain". The element specifies 
					binding to FastBit column as its text value. The text value is composed as e[x]id[y], where [x] is an enterprise ID, [y] is element ID, it is the same as 
					files in FastBit table.</simpara>
					<simpara><emphasis>&lt;element&gt;</emphasis> can have an attribute "parts". This is used for values that are too large to fit into one column, like IPv6 address.
					Specifying parts > 2 will make the element to search for solumn with name e[x]id[y]p[z] where [z] contains the part number, starting with 0.</simpara>
					<simpara><emphasis>&lt;element&gt;</emphasis> can have an attribute "aggregation". This determines how the columns is aggregated. 
					If the attribute is empty, column is not aggregated. Supported values are: 'min', 'max', 'sum', 'avg'</simpara>
					<para><emphasis>&lt;element&gt;</emphasis> can have an attribute "semantics". It defines how the column is printed. There are several predefined
				options to format output columns:
						<itemizedlist>
							<listitem><simpara><emphasis>ipv4</emphasis>: expects uint32 column and prints it as IPv4 address.</simpara></listitem>
							<listitem><simpara><emphasis>ipv6</emphasis>: expects uint64 column and prints it as IPv6 address. 'parts' attribute must be set to 2.</simpara></listitem>
							<listitem><simpara><emphasis>tmstmp64</emphasis>: expects uint64 column (with miliseconds since 1970) and prints it as a timestamp.</simpara></listitem>
							<listitem><simpara><emphasis>tmstmp32</emphasis>: expects uint32 column (with seconds since 1970) and prints it as a timestamp.</simpara></listitem>
							<listitem><simpara><emphasis>tcpflags</emphasis>: expects uint8 column and print it as TCP flags.</simpara></listitem>
							<listitem><simpara><emphasis>flows</emphasis>: this is special column with no relation to the database. It is always computed as number of flows.</simpara></listitem>
						</itemizedlist>
					</para>
				</listitem>
				<listitem>
					<simpara><emphasis>&lt;operation&gt;</emphasis>: The <emphasis>&lt;value&gt;</emphasis> must have attribute "type" set to "operation". 
					Operation has two children, <emphasis>&lt;arg1&gt;</emphasis> and <emphasis>&lt;arg2&gt;</emphasis>. The "name" attribute of operation element is 
					one of '+', '-', '/', '*' and specifies the arithmetic operation with usual meaning.</simpara>
					<simpara><emphasis>&lt;operation&gt;</emphasis>: can have an attribute "semantics". Currently only allowed value is duration. This makes the column with miliseconds
					to be formatted as seconds with precision 3.</simpara>
				</listitem>
			</itemizedlist>
		</para>
		<simpara>
			Section <emphasis>&lt;groups&gt;</emphasis> is used to define column groups (e.g. source port + destination port)
		</simpara>
		<simpara>
			Section <emphasis>&lt;summary&gt;</emphasis> is used to specify which columns are considered summary columns. Each column is specified by its alias inside element <emphasis>&lt;column&gt;</emphasis>.
			Summary columns are used in statistics mode to provide percentage information and also in total summary below the printed records.
		</simpara>
		<simpara>
			Section <emphasis>&lt;output&gt;</emphasis> is used to define output formats. 
			Each <emphasis>&lt;format&gt;</emphasis> has <emphasis>&lt;formatName&gt;</emphasis> which is used to reference it on command line, 
			and <emphasis>&lt;formatString&gt;</emphasis>, which defines the output format to be used for this format.
		</simpara>
	</refsect1>
	
	<refsect1>
		<title>Plugins</title>
		<simpara>Plugins are used for parsing input and formatting output. For detailed informations see <citerefentry><refentrytitle>fbitdump</refentrytitle><manvolnum>1</manvolnum></citerefentry></simpara>
		<simpara>Each plugin record must contain following children:</simpara>
		<simplelist> 
			<member><emphasis>&lt;name&gt;</emphasis>: plugin name</member>
			<member><emphasis>&lt;path&gt;</emphasis>: location of *.so file</member>
		</simplelist>
                <simpara>Each plugin can contain <emphasis>&lt;plainLevel&gt;</emphasis> child that specifies the upper limit of plain level. When fbitdump is running with plain level (option -N) greater than or equal to plugin's, every value formatted by this plugin is printed as plain number.</simpara>
				<simpara>Inernal plugins (for IP addresses, protocols etc.) have plainLevel set to the value of 10. Default value for external plugins is 1.</simpara>
	</refsect1>

	<refsect1>
		<title>Examples</title>
		<literallayout>
<![CDATA[
Bytes per packet column. The column value is computed from number of bytes (%byt) and number of packets (%pkt)
<column>
	<name>Bpp</name>
	<width>8</width>
	<alias>%bpp</alias>
	<value type="operation">
		<operation name="/">
			<arg1>%byt</arg1>
			<arg2>%pkt</arg2>
		</operation>
	</value>
</column>]]>
		</literallayout>
		<literallayout>
<![CDATA[Destination IPv6 address. Aliases usable in format and filter are %da6 and %dstip6. Width of IPv6 address is 39. Value is taken from table and has two parts, e0id28p0 and eoid28p1.
<column>
	<name>Dst IPv6</name>
	<width>39</width>
	<alias>%da6</alias>
	<alias>%dstip6</alias>
	<value type="plain">
		<element semantics="ipv6" parts="2">e0id28</element>
	</value>
</column>]]>
		</literallayout>
		<literallayout>
<![CDATA[Group for filtering source and destination port together by %port alias.
<group>
	<name>Port</name>
	<alias>%port</alias>
	<members>
		<member>%dp</member>
		<member>%sp</member>
	</members>
</group>]]>
	</literallayout>
	<literallayout>
<![CDATA[Plugin for parsing input and formatting output.
<plugins>
	<plugin>
		<name>Test_plugin</name>
		<path>/path/to/so/file/file.so</path>
	</plugin>
</plugins>]]>
	</literallayout>	
	</refsect1>

	<refsect1>
		<title>See Also</title>
		<para></para>
		<para>
			<variablelist>
				<varlistentry>
					<term>
						<citerefentry><refentrytitle>fbitdump</refentrytitle><manvolnum>1</manvolnum></citerefentry>,
						<citerefentry><refentrytitle>ipfixcol</refentrytitle><manvolnum>1</manvolnum></citerefentry>
					</term>
					<listitem>
						<simpara>Man pages</simpara>
					</listitem>
				</varlistentry>
				<varlistentry>
					<term>
						<link xlink:href="http://www.liberouter.org/technologies/ipfixcol/">http://www.liberouter.org/technologies/ipfixcol/</link>
					</term>
					<listitem>
						<para>IPFIXcol Project Homepage</para>
					</listitem>
				</varlistentry>
				<varlistentry>
					<term>
						<link xlink:href="http://www.liberouter.org">http://www.liberouter.org</link>
					</term>
					<listitem>
						<para>Liberouter web page</para>
					</listitem>
				</varlistentry>
				<varlistentry>
					<term>
						<email>tmc-support@cesnet.cz</email>
					</term>
					<listitem>
						<para>Support mailing list</para>
					</listitem>
				</varlistentry>
			</variablelist>
		</para>
	</refsect1>
</refentry>
