<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<refentry 
		xmlns="http://docbook.org/ns/docbook" 
		xmlns:xlink="http://www.w3.org/1999/xlink" 
		xmlns:xsi="http://www.w3.org/2001/XMLSchema-instance"
		xsi:schemaLocation="http://www.w3.org/1999/xlink http://docbook.org/xml/5.0/xsd/xlink.xsd
			http://docbook.org/ns/docbook http://docbook.org/xml/5.0/xsd/docbook.xsd"
		version="5.0" xml:lang="en">
	<info>
		<copyright>
			<year>2008-2015</year>
			<holder>CESNET, z.s.p.o.</holder>
		</copyright>
		<date>16 March 2012</date>
		<authorgroup>
			<author>
                <personname>
    				<firstname>Michal</firstname>
	    			<surname>Srb</surname>
                </personname>
                <email>michal.srb@cesnet.cz</email>
                <contrib>developer</contrib>
			</author>
		</authorgroup>
		<orgname>The Liberouter Project</orgname>
	</info>

	<refmeta>
		<refentrytitle>ipfixcol-ipfix-input</refentrytitle>
		<manvolnum>1</manvolnum>
		<refmiscinfo otherclass="manual" class="manual">IPFIX file input plugin for IPFIXcol.</refmiscinfo>
	</refmeta>

	<refnamediv>
		<refname>ipfixcol-ipfix-input</refname>
		<refpurpose>IPFIX file input plugin for IPFIXcol.</refpurpose>
	</refnamediv>
    
	<refsect1>
		<title>Description</title>
		<simpara>
			The <command>ipfixcol-ipfix-input</command> plugin is a part of IPFIXcol (IPFIX collector). 
			It provides means to read flow data from files in IPFIX file format.
		</simpara>
	</refsect1>

	<refsect1>
		<title>Configuration</title>
		<simpara>There are two configuration XML files for ipfixcol that affects plugin usage.
		First one is internal configuration XML (<filename>/etc/ipfixcol/internalcfg.xml</filename>) where are list of all available plugins for the collecor. 
    	The plugin must be specified here to be usable.
    	</simpara>
    	<simpara><filename>internalcfg.xml</filename> IPFIX file input example</simpara>
    	<programlisting>
    <![CDATA[
	<inputPlugin>
		<name>fileReader</name>
		<file>/usr/share/ipfixcol/plugins/ipfixcol-ipfix-input.so</file>
	</inputPlugin>
    ]]>
    	</programlisting>
    	<para></para>
    	
    	<simpara>The collector must be configured to use IPFIX file input plugin in startup.xml configuration (<filename>/etc/ipfixcol/startup.xml</filename>). 
    	The configuration specifies which plugins (destinations) are used by the collector to store data and provides configuration for the plugins themselves.
    	</simpara>
    	<simpara><filename>startup.xml</filename> IPFIX file input example</simpara>
    	<programlisting>
    <![CDATA[
	<name>read IPFIX data from IPFIX file</name>
	<fileReader>
		<file>file://tmp/filename.ipfix</file>
	</fileReader>
	<exportingProcess>File writer IPFIX</exportingProcess>
    ]]>
    	</programlisting>
    
    	<para>
			<variablelist>
				<varlistentry>
					<term><command>file</command></term>
					<listitem>
						<simpara>Path to a file in IPFIX file format. It is possible to use asterisk instead of filename. In such a case, all files in specified path will be processed. Another way is to use asterisk within filename, so only files that match the regular expression will be processed.</simpara>
					</listitem>
				</varlistentry>
			</variablelist>
		</para>
	</refsect1>

	<refsect1>
		<title>See Also</title>
		<para></para>
		<para>
			<variablelist>
				<varlistentry>
					<term>
						<citerefentry><refentrytitle>ipfixcol</refentrytitle><manvolnum>1</manvolnum></citerefentry>
					</term>
					<listitem>
						<simpara>Man pages</simpara>
					</listitem>
				</varlistentry>
				<varlistentry>
					<term>
						<link xlink:href="http://www.liberouter.org/technologies/ipfixcol/">http://www.liberouter.org/technologies/ipfixcol/</link>
					</term>
					<listitem>
						<para>IPFIXCOL Project Homepage</para>
					</listitem>
				</varlistentry>
				<varlistentry>
					<term>
						<link xlink:href="http://www.liberouter.org">http://www.liberouter.org</link>
					</term>
					<listitem>
						<para>Liberouter web page</para>
					</listitem>
				</varlistentry>
				<varlistentry>
					<term>
						<email>tmc-support@cesnet.cz</email>
					</term>
					<listitem>
						<para>Support mailing list</para>
					</listitem>
				</varlistentry>
			</variablelist>
		</para>
	</refsect1>
</refentry>
