<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<refentry 
		xmlns="http://docbook.org/ns/docbook" 
		xmlns:xlink="http://www.w3.org/1999/xlink" 
		xmlns:xsi="http://www.w3.org/2001/XMLSchema-instance"
		xsi:schemaLocation="http://www.w3.org/1999/xlink http://docbook.org/xml/5.0/xsd/xlink.xsd
			http://docbook.org/ns/docbook http://docbook.org/xml/5.0/xsd/docbook.xsd"
		version="5.0" xml:lang="en">
	<info>
		<copyright>
			<year>2015</year>
			<holder>CESNET, z.s.p.o.</holder>
		</copyright>
		<date>6 July 2016</date>
		<authorgroup>
			<author>
				<personname>
					<firstname>Lukas</firstname>
					<surname>Hutak</surname>
				</personname>
				<email>lukas.hutak@cesnet.cz</email>
				<contrib>developer</contrib>
			</author>
		</authorgroup>
		<orgname>The Liberouter Project</orgname>
	</info>

	<refmeta>
		<refentrytitle>ipfixcol-forwarding-output</refentrytitle>
		<manvolnum>1</manvolnum>
		<refmiscinfo otherclass="manual" class="manual">Forwarding output plugin for IPFIXcol.</refmiscinfo>
	</refmeta>

	<refnamediv>
		<refname>ipfixcol-forwarding-output</refname>
		<refpurpose>Forwarding output plugin for IPFIXcol.</refpurpose>
	</refnamediv>
	
	<refsect1>
		<title>Description</title>
		<simpara>
		The <command>ipfixcol-forwarding-output.so</command> is output plugin for IPFIXcol (IPFIX collector).
		</simpara>
		<simpara>
		The plugin distributes IPFIX packets over the network to one or more destinations using TCP protocol and non-blocking sockets. As a destination can be used another instance of IPFIXcol or any other collector. Every packet can be distributed to all destinations or forwarded to one of destinations using Round Robin distribution model. 
		</simpara>
		<simpara>
		The plugin preserves Observation Domain ID (ODID) of all packets. If more (independent) metering processes (i.e. sources of IPFIX packets) use the same ODID, the plugin remap identification numbers of templates of packets to prevent misinterpretation of IPFIX records. It is very <emphasis>important</emphasis> to avoid using different types and configurations of flow sampling by the metering processes as the packets are mixed. (Flow sampling is not recommended).
		</simpara>
		<simpara>
		If a destination collector is disconnected, the plugin will periodically try to reconnect and other destinations will not be affected. If a destination collector is connected, but unable to receive more packets due to the load, some noncritical packets (i.e. packets without definitions of templates) for this destination will not be delivered. When using Round Robin distribution model and a packet cannot be delivered to a destination, the packet will be send to next destination in order to prevent packet lost. The packet will be lost only when all destinations are busy or disconnected.
		</simpara>
	</refsect1>

	<refsect1>
		<title>Configuration</title>
		<simpara>There are two configuration XML files for ipfixcol that affects plugin usage.
		First one is internal configuration XML (<filename>/etc/ipfixcol/internalcfg.xml</filename>) where are list of all available plugins for the collecor. To use forwarding output plugin, make sure it is properly specified in the configuration XMLs.
		</simpara>
		<simpara><filename>internalcfg.xml</filename> forwarding example</simpara>
		<programlisting>
	<![CDATA[
	<storagePlugin>
		<name>forwarding</name>
		<file>/usr/share/ipfixcol/plugins/ipfixcol-forwarding-output.so</file>
		<threadName>forwarding</threadName>
	</storagePlugin>
	]]>
		</programlisting>
		<para></para>
		
		<simpara>The collector must be configured to use forwarding output plugin in startup.xml configuration (<filename>/etc/ipfixcol/startup.xml</filename>). 
		The configuration specifies which plugins are used by the collector to process data and provides configuration for the plugins themselves. 
		</simpara>
		<simpara><filename>startup.xml</filename> forwarding example</simpara>
		<programlisting>
	<![CDATA[
	<destination>
		<name>send data</name>
		<fileWriter>
			<fileFormat>forwarding</fileFormat>

			<distribution>RoundRobin</distribution>
			<defaultPort>4739</defaultPort>

			<destination>
				<ip>192.168.0.1</ip>
			</destination>
			<destination>
				<ip>192.168.0.2</ip>
			</destination>
			<destination>
				<ip>192.168.0.3</ip>
				<port>4740</port>
			</destination>
		</fileWriter>
	</destination>
	]]>
		</programlisting>

	<para>
		<variablelist>
			<varlistentry>
				<term>
					<command>distribution</command>
				</term>
				<listitem>
					<simpara>Distribution model of IPFIX packets. Supported types are <emphasis>RoundRobin</emphasis> (each packet will be delivered to one of destinations) and <emphasis>all</emphasis> (each packet will be delivered to all destination). Default type is <emphasis>all</emphasis>.
					</simpara>
				</listitem>
			</varlistentry>
			<varlistentry>
				<term>
					<command>defaultPort</command>
				</term>
				<listitem>
					<simpara>Default port number. It can be overriden by <command>port</command> tag in <command>destination</command>.
					</simpara>
				</listitem>
			</varlistentry>

			<varlistentry>
				<term>
					<command>destination</command>
				</term>
				<listitem>
					<simpara>Destination address
					</simpara>
					<varlistentry>
						<term>
							<command>ip</command>
						</term>
						<simpara>IPv4 or IPv6 address</simpara>
					</varlistentry>

					<varlistentry>
						<term>
							<command>port</command>
						</term>
						<simpara>Destination port number</simpara>
					</varlistentry>

				</listitem>
			</varlistentry>
			<varlistentry>
				<term>
					<command>reconnectionPeriod</command>
				</term>
				<listitem>
					<simpara>The time (in milliseconds) between attempts to reconnect disconnected destinations. [default == 1000].
					</simpara>
				</listitem>
			</varlistentry>

		</variablelist>
	</para>
	</refsect1>

	<refsect1>
		<title>See Also</title>
		<para></para>
		<para>
			<variablelist>
				<varlistentry>
					<term>
						<citerefentry><refentrytitle>ipfixcol</refentrytitle><manvolnum>1</manvolnum></citerefentry>
						<citerefentry><refentrytitle>ipfixcol-filter-inter</refentrytitle><manvolnum>1</manvolnum></citerefentry>
						<citerefentry><refentrytitle>ipfixcol-joinflows-inter</refentrytitle><manvolnum>1</manvolnum></citerefentry>
						<citerefentry><refentrytitle>ipfixcol-fastbit-output</refentrytitle><manvolnum>1</manvolnum></citerefentry>
					</term>
					<listitem>
						<simpara>Man pages</simpara>
					</listitem>
				</varlistentry>
				<varlistentry>
					<term>
						<link xlink:href="http://www.liberouter.org/technologies/ipfixcol/">http://www.liberouter.org/technologies/ipfixcol/</link>
					</term>
					<listitem>
						<para>IPFIXcol Project Homepage</para>
					</listitem>
				</varlistentry>
				<varlistentry>
					<term>
						<link xlink:href="http://www.liberouter.org">http://www.liberouter.org</link>
					</term>
					<listitem>
						<para>Liberouter web page</para>
					</listitem>
				</varlistentry>
				<varlistentry>
					<term>
						<email>tmc-support@cesnet.cz</email>
					</term>
					<listitem>
						<para>Support mailing list</para>
					</listitem>
				</varlistentry>
			</variablelist>
		</para>
	</refsect1>
</refentry>
