<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<refentry
		xmlns:db="http://docbook.org/ns/docbook"
		xmlns:xlink="http://www.w3.org/1999/xlink"
		xmlns:xsi="http://www.w3.org/2001/XMLSchema-instance"
		xsi:schemaLocation="http://www.w3.org/1999/xlink http://docbook.org/xml/5.0/xsd/xlink.xsd
			http://docbook.org/ns/docbook http://docbook.org/xml/5.0/xsd/docbook.xsd"
		version="5.0" xml:lang="en">
	<info>
		<copyright>
			<year>2008-2017</year>
			<holder>CESNET, z.s.p.o.</holder>
		</copyright>
		<date>7 February 2017</date>
		<authorgroup>
			<author>
				<personname>
					<firstname>Imrich</firstname>
					<surname>Stoffa</surname>
				</personname>
				<email>xstoff02@stud.fit.vutbr.cz</email>
				<contrib>developer</contrib>
			</author>
			<author>
				<personname>
					<firstname>Lukas</firstname>
					<surname>Hutak</surname>
				</personname>
				<email>xhutak01@stud.fit.vutbr.cz</email>
				<contrib>developer</contrib>
			</author>
			<author>
				<personname>
					<firstname>Pavel</firstname>
					<surname>Krobot</surname>
				</personname>
				<email>Pavel.Krobot@cesnet.cz</email>
				<contrib>developer</contrib>
			</author>
		</authorgroup>
		<orgname>The Liberouter Project</orgname>
	</info>

	<refmeta>
		<refentrytitle>ipfixcol-lnfstore-output</refentrytitle>
		<manvolnum>1</manvolnum>
		<refmiscinfo otherclass="manual" class="manual">lnfstore output plugin</refmiscinfo>
	</refmeta>

	<refnamediv>
		<refname>ipfixcol-lnfstore-output</refname>
		<refpurpose>lnfstore output plugin for IPFIXcol.</refpurpose>
	</refnamediv>

	<refsect1>
		<title>Description</title>
		<simpara>
			The <command>ipfix-lnfstore-output</command> plugin is a part of
			IPFIXcol (IPFIX collector). It converts and store IPFIX data into
			NfDump files. Only a subset of IPFIX elements that have NetFlow
			equivalents can be stored into NfDump files. Other elements are
			skipped.
		</simpara>
		<simpara>
			In normal mode, files will be stored based on a configuration using
			the following template:
			<![CDATA[ "<storagePath>/YYYY/MM/DD/<prefix><suffixMask>" ]]>
			where "YYYY/MM/DD" means year/month/day. However, when profile
			mode is enabled flows will stored into directories of all channels
			where they belong. In this case the template is slightly different:
			<![CDATA[
				"_profileDir_/channels/_channelName_/YYYY/MM/DD/<prefix><suffixMask>"
			]]>
		</simpara>

		<simpara>
			To speed up search of records of an IP address in multiple data
			files, the plugin can also create index files. These files
			will be create simultaneously with data files and they can be
			utilized by tools such as
			<citerefentry>
				<refentrytitle>fdistdump</refentrytitle>
				<manvolnum>1</manvolnum>
			</citerefentry>
			to promptly determine if there is at least one record with the
			specified IP address in a file. This can dramatically reduce the
			number of processed files and provide query results faster.
		</simpara>
	</refsect1>

	<refsect1>
		<title>Configuration</title>
		<simpara>
			The collector must be configured to use lnfstore output plugin
			in startup.xml configuration
			(<filename>/etc/ipfixcol/startup.xml</filename>).
			The configuration specifies which plugins (destinations) are
			used by the collector to store data and provides configuration
			for the plugins themselves.
		</simpara>

		<simpara>
			We strongly recommend to use this plugin with activated Single
			Manager mode i.e. only one instance of the plugin is shared among
			all ODIDs. See the example configuration.
		</simpara>

		<simpara><filename>startup.xml</filename> lnfstore example</simpara>
		<programlisting>
	<![CDATA[
<destination>
	<name>Storage</name>
	<fileWriter>
		<fileFormat>lnfstore</fileFormat>
		<profiles>no</profiles>
		<storagePath>/tmp/IPFIXcol/lnfstore</storagePath>
		<identificatorField>ipfixcol</identificatorField>
		<compress>yes</compress>
		<dumpInterval>
			<timeWindow>300</timeWindow>
			<align>yes</align>
		</dumpInterval>
		<index>
			<enable>yes</enable>
			<autosize>yes</autosize>
		</index>
	</fileWriter>
</destination>

<!--## Only one plugin for all ODIDs -->
<singleManager>yes</singleManager>
	]]>
		</programlisting>
	</refsect1>

	<refsect1>
		<title>Parameters</title>

		<para><variablelist>
		<varlistentry>
			<term><command>fileFormat</command></term>
			<listitem><simpara>
				Same as in <filename>internalcfg.xml</filename> file.
			</simpara></listitem>
		</varlistentry>

		<varlistentry>
			<term><command>profiles</command></term>
			<listitem><simpara>
				When it is enabled ("yes"), the parameter
				<![CDATA[<storagePath>]]> is ignored and flows will be stored
				into directories of profiles generated by profiler (see
				<citerefentry>
					<refentrytitle>ipfix-profiler-inter</refentrytitle>
					<manvolnum>1</manvolnum>
				</citerefentry>) [default: no].
			</simpara></listitem>
		</varlistentry>

		<varlistentry>
			<term><command>storagePath</command></term>
			<listitem><simpara>
				The path element specifies the storage directory for data.
				Valid only when profile processing is not enabled. Path may
				contain special character sequences, each of which is
				introduced by a "%" character and terminated by some other
				character. Each of this sequences is substituted by its value.
				Currently supported special characters: %h = hostname.
			</simpara></listitem>
		</varlistentry>

		<varlistentry>
			<term><command>prefix</command></term>
			<listitem><simpara>
				Specifies the first part of output file names [default: "lnf."].
			</simpara></listitem>
		</varlistentry>

		<varlistentry>
			<term><command>suffixMask</command></term>
			<listitem><simpara>
				Specifies name suffix of output files. The mask can contain
				format specifier for day, month, etc. This allows you to
				create names based on format specifiers
				[default: "%Y%m%d%H%M%S"]. See
				<citerefentry>
					<refentrytitle>strftime</refentrytitle>
					<manvolnum>3</manvolnum>
				</citerefentry>
				for all specifiers.
			</simpara></listitem>
		</varlistentry>

		<varlistentry>
			<term><command>identificatorField</command></term>
			<listitem><simpara>
				Specifies name identification line for nfdump files.
			</simpara></listitem>
		</varlistentry>

		<varlistentry>
			<term><command>compress</command></term>
			<listitem><simpara>
				Enable/disable LZO compression for files (yes/no) [default: no].
			</simpara></listitem>
		</varlistentry>

		<varlistentry>
			<term><command>dumpInterval</command></term>
			<listitem>
				<varlistentry>
					<term><command>timeWindow</command></term>
					<listitem><simpara>
						Specifies the time interval in seconds to rotate files
						[default: 300].
					</simpara></listitem>
				</varlistentry>

				<varlistentry>
					<term><command>align</command></term>
					<listitem><simpara>
						Align file rotation with next N minute interval (yes/no)
						[default: yes].
					</simpara></listitem>
				</varlistentry>
			</listitem>
		</varlistentry>

		<varlistentry>
			<term><command>index</command></term>
			<listitem>
				<varlistentry>
					<term><command>enable</command></term>
					<listitem><simpara>
						Enable/disable creation of Bloom Filter indexes (yes/no)
						[default: no].
					</simpara></listitem>
				</varlistentry>

				<varlistentry>
					<term><command>autosize</command></term>
					<listitem><simpara>
						Enable/disable automatic resize of index files based on
						the number of unique IP addresses in the last dump
						interval (yes/no) [default: yes].
					</simpara></listitem>
				</varlistentry>

				<varlistentry>
					<term><command>prefix</command></term>
					<listitem><simpara>
						Specifies the first part of output file names
						[default: "bfi."].
					</simpara></listitem>
				</varlistentry>

				<varlistentry>
					<term><command>estimatedItemCount</command></term>
					<listitem><simpara>
						Expected number of unique IP addresses in dump interval.
						When <![CDATA[<autosize>]]> is enabled this value is
						continuously recalculated to suit current utilization.
						The value affects the size of index files i.e. higher
						value, larger files [default: 100000].
					</simpara></listitem>
				</varlistentry>

				<varlistentry>
					<term><command>falsePositiveProbability</command></term>
					<listitem><simpara>
						False positive probability of the index. The probability
						that presence test of an IP address indicates that the
						IP address is present in a data file, when it actually
						is not. It does not affect the situation when the
						IP address is actually in the data file i.e. when the
						IP is in the file, the result of the test is always
						correct. The value affects the size of index files i.e.
						smaller value, larger files [default: 0.01].
					</simpara></listitem>
				</varlistentry>

			</listitem>
		</varlistentry>


		</variablelist></para>
	</refsect1>

	<refsect1>
		<title>See Also</title>
		<para></para>
		<para>
			<variablelist>
				<varlistentry>
					<term>
						<citerefentry><refentrytitle>ipfixcol</refentrytitle><manvolnum>1</manvolnum></citerefentry>
					</term>
					<listitem>
						<simpara>Man pages</simpara>
					</listitem>
				</varlistentry>
				<varlistentry>
					<term>
						<link xlink:href="http://www.liberouter.org/technologies/ipfixcol/">http://www.liberouter.org/technologies/ipfixcol/</link>
					</term>
					<listitem>
						<para>IPFIXCOL Project Homepage</para>
					</listitem>
				</varlistentry>
				<varlistentry>
					<term>
						<link xlink:href="http://www.liberouter.org">http://www.liberouter.org</link>
					</term>
					<listitem>
						<para>Liberouter web page</para>
					</listitem>
				</varlistentry>
				<varlistentry>
					<term>
						<email>tmc-support@cesnet.cz</email>
					</term>
					<listitem>
						<para>Support mailing list</para>
					</listitem>
				</varlistentry>
			</variablelist>
		</para>
	</refsect1>
</refentry>
